1.)how can we secure mongodb databases?
Ans- To secure a MongoDB database, you must implement layers of protection covering access control, network security, and data encryption. By default, MongoDB often lacks these strict settings, so manual configuration is essential for self-managed deployments.
1. Enable Authentication & Access Control
2. Harden Network Security
3. Implement Strong Encryption
4. Monitoring & Maintenance

2.)how can you manage data consistency in mongodb?
Ans- Managing data consistency in MongoDB involves a combination of schema design strategies and database-level configurations to balance performance and data accuracy.

3.)how can you implement transaction in mongodb?
Ans- To implement transactions in MongoDB, you must use a Replica Set or a Sharded Cluster; transactions are not supported on standalone deployments. MongoDB provides two main ways to handle transactions: the Callback API (recommended for most users) and the Core API (for manual control).

 Callback API
Create a Session: Use client.startSession().
Execute the Transaction: Use the withTransaction() method on that session.
Automatic Actions: If the code inside the callback finishes successfully, the transaction commits; if an error is thrown, it aborts automatically.

Core API
Start Session: const session = client.startSession();.
Start Transaction: session.startTransaction();.
Perform Operations: Pass the { session } object as an option to every database operation (e.g., db.collection.insertOne({ ... }, { session });).
Commit: await session.commitTransaction(); if successful.
Abort: await session.abortTransaction(); if an error occurs.
End Session: session.endSession();.

4.)in mern app how can you implement ssr?
Ans- In a MERN stack application, you can implement Server-Side Rendering (SSR) by using specialized React APIs on your Express server to convert components into HTML strings before sending them to the client.

5.)explain about the indexing in mongodb and about the performance impact?
Ans- In MongoDB, indexing is a method used to improve the efficiency and speed of data retrieval operations. Without indexes, MongoDB must perform a collection scan, which means it has to look through every single document in a collection to find the data that matches a query.

6.)What is diff b/w rdbms and nosql?
Ans- // SQL(Relational Database)
// --------------------------------

// Data will be stores in tables(rows & columns), also we need to have the Relational b/w the tables 
joins

// Non-Relational database(noSQL):
// ------------------------------------
// Data will be stored in the JSON document (BSON...Binary JSON)

what is diff b/w sql and nosql

7.)what is mongodb?
Ans-MongoDB is a highly scalable, document-oriented NoSQL database designed for modern application development.

8.)what are the main features of mongodb?
Ans- it stores data in flexible, JSON-like formats.

9.)how to setup the mongodb?
Ans- Setting up MongoDB can be done either locally on your machine or via a cloud-based cluster. For most modern projects, using MongoDB Atlas (the cloud service) is the fastest and easiest way to get started.

10.)what is mongo shell?
Ans- The MongoDB Shell (officially called mongosh) is the interactive, JavaScript-based command-line interface for MongoDB. It acts as a direct line to your database, letting developers and administrators effortlessly run queries, perform CRUD operations, automate scripts, and manage server instances.

11.)what is mongo compass?
Ans- MongoDB Compass is the official Graphical User Interface (GUI) for MongoDB. It allows developers, analysts, and administrators to interact with their databases visually—enabling them to explore data, build queries, manage indexes, and monitor performance without having to write command-line code.

12.)what is mongo atlas?
Ans- MongoDB Atlas is a fully managed, multi-cloud database-as-a-service (DBaaS) built by the creators of MongoDB. It eliminates the need to manually provision servers, configure networks, or handle software upgrades, allowing developers to deploy scalable databases quickly across AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud.

13.)command to show the list of dbs?
Ans- show dbs or show databases

14.)how to create the collection?
Ans- db.createCollection("collection_name")

15.)what is document?
Ans- A document is a written, drawn, presented, or digital record of information.

16.)what is collection?
Ans- group of document are nothing but collection in noSQL, Table in SQL

17.)how the data is stored in monogdb?
Ans- MongoDB stores data as BSON (Binary JSON) documents. Unlike relational databases that use rigid tables and rows, MongoDB organizes data hierarchically into a flexible, document-oriented structure.

18.)what is bson?
Ans- BSON stands for Binary JSON. It is a binary-encoded, lightweight data format used to store and transfer documents that are structured similarly to JSON.

19.)what is diff json vs bson?
Ans- JSON is a human-readable, text-based format designed for data exchange. BSON (Binary JSON) is a binary-encoded serialization of JSON-like documents, designed specifically for speed, space efficiency, and support for advanced data types in databases like MongoDB.

20.)what are the advantanges of mongodb?
Ans- MongoDB is a highly popular document-oriented NoSQL database known for its flexibility, scalability, and performance. It is particularly advantageous for modern applications that handle unstructured or rapidly evolving data, allowing developers to build features faster by storing and accessing data natively as code.

21.)what are the limitations of the mongodb?
Ans- While MongoDB is highly scalable and flexible, its primary limitations include higher memory consumption, document size limits, and less mature multi-document transaction support compared to traditional relational databases.

22.)how to insert single document?
Ans- db.collectionName.insertOne({
  name: "John Doe",
  age: 30,
  status: "active"
})

23.)how to insert many documents?
Ans- db.collectionName.insertMany([
  { name: "Alice", age: 28 },
  { name: "Bob", age: 34 },
  { name: "Charlie", age: 25 }
])

24.)how to find the data for the single doc?
Ans- 
25.)diff insertOne and insertMany 
26.)diff b/w updateOne and updateMany
27.)diff b/w findOne and findMany 
28.)diff b/w deleteOne and DeleteMany 
29.)what is $set operator in mondob
30.)what is $lookup 
31.)what is $projection 
32.)what is indexing in mongodb
33.)what is $match
34.)what is limit() in monogdb 
35.)how to sort the data
36.)how to count the documents 
37.)how to replace the document
38.)what are the different data types in mongodb
39.)what is objectId 
40.)what is $in and $nin 
41.)what is $and, $or, $not, $nor
42.)what $regex 
43.)how do we query for the embedded documents 
44.)what is index in mongodb 
45.)why we have to do indexing
46.)how do we create index in mongodb 
47.)how to take backup data in mongodb
48.)what is unqiue index 
49.)what is hashed index 
50.)what is expalin() method 
51.)what is aggregation 
52.)what is $unwind 
53.)how to cal avg in aggregation 
54.)what is $merge atatge 
55.)what is schema-less in mongodb 
56.)wha are the pros and cons of the embedded documents 
57.)what is data modeling 
58.)what is sharding in mongodb 
59.)what is replica set 
60.)what is replication in mongodb 
61.)what is expalin()
62.)what is sharding in mongodb 
63.)how to perfom joins in mongodb 
64.)how do w ehandle relationships in monogdb 
65.)expalin mongodb aggregation pipeline 