1.)how do you handle cors in express?
Ans- To use CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) in Express, the standard approach is to use the cors middleware package. This middleware handles the necessary HTTP headers and preflight requests required by browsers to allow cross-origin communication.
npm install cors
const cors = require('cors');
app.use(cors());

2.)what is diff b/w express js and koa js?
Ans- The main difference between Express.js and Koa.js is their philosophy: Express is a "batteries-included" framework that provides many built-in features, while Koa is a lightweight, modular foundation that lets you choose only the tools you need. Both were created by the same core team, but Koa was designed as a modern, "next-generation" alternative that uses newer JavaScript features like async/await to eliminate callback hell.

3.)how to handle authentication and authorization in express?
Ans- Handling authentication (verifying who you are) and authorization (verifying what you are allowed to do) in Express is best achieved using middleware to intercept requests, validate JSON Web Tokens (JWT), and check user roles before granting access to specific routes.

4.)what is diff b/w controller and middleware in express?
Ans- In Express, technically all controllers are middleware. However, developers use these terms to describe different roles in the request-response cycle.
Core Difference
Middleware: Functions that process the request before it reaches the final destination. They handle generic tasks like logging, authentication, or parsing data.
Controller: The "final" function (or route handler) that processes the actual business logic and sends the response back to the client.


//expess js 
what is express js 
we have node, then why we are using express js
how to create the express js server
what is router in expessjs
how to handle routes in express js 
what is middleware 
when we are posting the data what middleware we will use 
what is express.json 
what is the middleware used to show the static files in express js 
what is cors 
how to enables cors in express js 
what is the rest api 
how to implment simple rest api and test in postman 
what are the CRUD operations 
what is middleware in expressjs
how do we use query params in express js 
how to send response in express
what is res.send vs res.json 
what is dotenv package
what is the use of process.env
diff b/w local and global modules in express 
diff b/w readfile and readfilesync 
what is load balancing in node js 
how do we make an http request in node js 
what is the axios library 
diff b/w fetch and axios 
how do we connect node js with the db 
what jwt 
what is bcyprtjs 
how to hash the password 
how to generate the token
how to implement jwt authentication 
what is session 
how do we manage sessions in node js 
what is the use of morgon in express 
what is throtting 
what is the purpose .gitignore 
what are the diff ways to secure our node js applications
what is worker thread
what is expess.router()
what is passport.js
how to implement authentication and authorization, register and login 
what is mvc
how to connect node express to MongoDB via mongoose
what is flow to implement the backend 
package.json -> db -> models -> controllers -> middlewares -> routing -> app.js
how to do the MERN stack application